[DX-996] Improved Response Header Transform (#4019)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-classic.md

---
title: Using the Response Header Transform with Tyk Classic APIs
date: 2024-01-24
description: "Using the Response Header Transform middleware with Tyk Classic APIs"
tags: ["Response Header Transform", "middleware", "per-endpoint","per-API", "Tyk Classic"]
---

Tyk's [response header transform]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/transform-traffic/response-headers" >}}) middleware enables you to append or delete headers on responses received from the upstream service before sending them to the client.

There are two options for this:
 - API-level modification that is applied to all responses for the API
 - endpoint-level modification that is applied only to responses from a specific endpoint

{{< note success >}}
**Note**  

If both API-level and endpoint-level middleware are configured, the endpoint-level transformation will be applied first.
{{< /note >}}

> When working with Tyk Classic APIs the transformation is configured in the Tyk Classic API Definition; this can be done manually within the `.json` file or from the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
When working with Tyk Classic APIs the transformation is configured in the Tyk Classic API Definition. You can do this via the Tyk Dashboard API or in the API Designer.
```

If you want to use dynamic data from context variables, you must [enable]({{< ref "context-variables#enabling-context-variables-for-use-with-tyk-classic-apis" >}}) context variables for the API to be able to access them from the response header transform middleware.

If you're using the newer Tyk OAS APIs, then check out the [Tyk OAS]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-oas" >}}) page.

## Configuring the Response Header Transform in the Tyk Classic API Definition
The API-level and endpoint-level response header transforms have a common configuration but are configured in different sections of the API definition.
{{< note success >}}

**Note**  
Prior to Tyk 5.3.0, there was an additional step to enable response header transforms (both API-level and endpoint-level). You would need to add the following to the Tyk Classic API definition:

> ```

Author: ```suggestion
``` .json
```

> "response_processors":[{"name": "header_injector"}]

Author: ```suggestion
{
    "response_processors":[
        {"name": "header_injector"}
    ]
}
```

For example:
```json  {linenos=true, linenostart=1}
{
    "version_data": {
        "versions": {
            "Default": {
                "global_response_headers": {
                    "X-Static": "foobar",
                    "X-Request-ID":"$tyk_context.request_id",
                    "X-User-ID": "$tyk_meta.uid"
                },
                "global_response_headers_remove": [
                    "X-Secret"
                ]
            }
        }
    },
}
```

This configuration will add three new headers to each response:
 - `X-Static` with the value `foobar`
 - `X-Request-ID` with a dynamic value taken from the `request_id` [context variable]({{< ref "context-variables" >}})
 - `X-User-ID` with a dynamic value taken from the `uid` field in the [session metadata]({{< ref "getting-started/key-concepts/session-meta-data" >}})

It will also delete one header (if present) from each response:
 - `X-Secret`

#### Endpoint-level transform
To configure response header transformation for a specific endpoint you must add a new `transform_response_headers` object to the `extended_paths` section of your API definition.

It has the following configuration:

>  - `path`: The path to match on

Author: ```suggestion
 - `path`: the path to match on
```

>  - `method`: The method to match on

Author: ```suggestion
 - `method`: the HTTP method to match on
```

>  - `delete_headers`: A list of the headers that should be deleted from the response

Author: ```suggestion
 - `delete_headers`: a list of the headers that should be deleted from the response
```

>  - `add_headers`: A list of headers, in key:value pairs, that should be added to the response

Author: ```suggestion
 - `add_headers`: a list of headers, in key:value pairs, that should be added to the response
```

            "add_headers": [
                {"X-Secret": "the-secret-key-is-secret"},
                {"X-New": "another-header"}
            ],
        }
    ]
}
```

In this example the Response Header Transform middleware has been configured for HTTP `GET` requests to the `/status/200` endpoint. Any response received from the upstream service following a request to that endpoint will have the `X-Static` header removed and the `X-Secret` and `X-New` headers added (with values set to `the-secret-key-is-secret` and `another-header`).

#### Combining API-level and Endpoint-level transforms
If the example [API-level]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-classic#api-level-transform" >}}) and [endpoint-level]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-classic#endpoint-level-transform" >}}) transforms are applied to the same API, then the `X-Secret` header will be added (by the endpoint-level transform first) and then removed (by the API-level transform). Subsequently, the result of the two transforms for a call to `GET /status/200` would be to add four headers:
 - `X-Request-ID`
 - `X-User-ID`
 - `X-Static`
 - `X-New`

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### Fixing response headers that leak upstream server data
A middleware called `header_transform` was added in Tyk 2.1 specfically to allow you to  ensure that headers such as `Location` and `Link` reflect the outward facade of your API Gateway and also align with the expected response location to be terminated at the gateway, not the hidden upstream proxy.

This is configured by adding a new `rev_proxy_header_cleanup` object to the `response_processors` section of your API definition.

It has the following configuration:
 - `headers`: a list of headers in the response that should be modified
 - `target_host`: the value to which the listed headers should be updated
 
For example:
``` .json
{
    "response_processors": [
        {
            "name": "header_transform",
            "options": {
                "rev_proxy_header_cleanup": {
                    "headers": ["Link", "Location"],
                    "target_host": "http://TykHost:TykPort"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> ## Configuring the Response Header Transform in the API Designer

Author: ```suggestion

In this example, the `Link` and `Location` headers will be modified from the server-generated response, with the protocol, domain and port of the value set in `target_host`.

This is not an often used feature of Tyk and has not been implemented in the Tyk Dashboard UI, nor in the [Tyk OAS API]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-oas" >}}).

## Configuring the Response Header Transform in the API Designer
```

---
title: Using the Response Header Transform with Tyk Classic APIs
date: 2024-01-24
description: "Using the Response Header Transform middleware with Tyk Classic APIs"
tags: ["Response Header Transform", "middleware", "per-endpoint","per-API", "Tyk Classic"]
---

> ## Overview

Author: ```suggestion
```

Tyk's [response header transform]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/transform-traffic/response-headers" >}}) middleware enables you to append or delete headers on responses received from the upstream service before sending them to the client.

There are two options for this:
 - API-level modification that is applied to all responses for the API
 - endpoint-level modification that is applied only to responses from a specific endpoint

{{< note success >}}
**Note**  

If both API-level and endpoint-level middleware are configured, the endpoint-level transformation will be applied first.
{{< /note >}}

When working with Tyk Classic APIs the transformation is configured in the Tyk Classic API Definition; this can be done manually within the `.json` file or from the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard.

If you want to use dynamic data from context variables, you must [enable]({{< ref "context-variables#enabling-context-variables-for-use-with-tyk-classic-apis" >}}) context variables for the API to be able to access them from the response header transform middleware.

> If you're using the newer Tyk OAS APIs, then check out the [Tyk OAS]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-oas" >}}) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the newer Tyk OAS APIs, then check out the [Tyk OAS]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-oas" >}}) page for how to configure Tyk to use dynamic data from context variables.
```

Author: This is a link to the sister page - i.e. if you've ended up on the Tyk Classic API page but are using Tyk OAS APIs. Each is intended to be standalone.

For example:
```json  {linenos=true, linenostart=1}
{
    "version_data": {
        "versions": {
            "Default": {
                "global_response_headers": {
                    "X-Static": "foobar",
                    "X-Request-ID":"$tyk_context.request_id",
                    "X-User-ID": "$tyk_meta.uid"
                },
                "global_response_headers_remove": [
                    "X-Secret"
                ]
            }
        }
    },
}
```

This configuration will add three new headers to each response:
 - `X-Static` with the value `foobar`
 - `X-Request-ID` with a dynamic value taken from the `request_id` [context variable]({{< ref "context-variables" >}})
 - `X-User-ID` with a dynamic value taken from the `uid` field in the [session metadata]({{< ref "getting-started/key-concepts/session-meta-data" >}})

It will also delete one header (if present) from each response:
 - `X-Secret`

#### Endpoint-level transform

> To configure a transformation of the response header for a specific endpoint you must add a new `transform_response_headers` object to the `extended_paths` section of your API definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure response header transformation for a specific endpoint you must add a new `transform_response_headers` object to the `extended_paths` section of your API definition.
```

It has the following configuration:
 - `path`: The path to match on
 - `method`: The method to match on
 - `delete_headers`: A list of the headers that should be deleted from the response
 - `add_headers`: A list of headers, in key:value pairs, that should be added to the response

For example:
```json  {linenos=true, linenostart=1}
{
    "transform_response_headers": [
        {
            "path": "status/200",
            "method": "GET",
            "delete_headers": ["X-Static"],
            "add_headers": [
                {"X-Secret": "the-secret-key-is-secret"},
                {"X-New": "another-header"}
            ],
        }
    ]
}
```

In this example the Response Header Transform middleware has been configured for HTTP `GET` requests to the `/status/200` endpoint. Any response received from the upstream service following a request to that endpoint will have the `X-Static` header removed and the `X-Secret` and `X-New` headers added (with values set to `the-secret-key-is-secret` and `another-header`).

#### Combining API-level and Endpoint-level transforms

> If the API-level transform in the previous [example]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-classic#api-level-transform" >}}) is applied to the same API, then because the endpoint-level transformation is performed first, the `X-Secret` header will be added (by the endpoint-level transform) and then removed (by the API-level transform) such that the overall effect of the two transforms for a call to `GET /status/200` would be to add four headers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the example [API-level]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-classic#api-level-transform" >}}) and [endpoint-level]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-classic#endpoint-level-transform" >}}) transforms are applied to the same API, then the `X-Secret` header will be added (by the endpoint-level transform first) and then removed (by the API-level transform). Subsequently, the result of the two transforms for a call to `GET /status/200` would be to add four headers:
```

 - `X-Request-ID`
 - `X-User-ID`
 - `X-Static`
 - `X-New`

## Configuring the Response Header Transform in the API Designer
You can use the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard to configure the response header transform middleware for your Tyk Classic API by following these steps.

#### API-level transform

Configuring the API-level response header transform middleware is very simple when using the Tyk Dashboard.

In the Endpoint Designer you should select the **Global Version Settings** and ensure that you have selected the **Response Headers** tab:

> < placeholder for image >

Reviewer: remember to add image

Note that you must click **ADD** to add a header to the list (for appending or deletion).

#### Endpoint-level transform

#### Step 1: Add an endpoint for the path and select the Header Transform plugin
From the **Endpoint Designer** add an endpoint that matches the path for which you want to perform the transformation. Select the **Modify Headers** plugin.

#### Step 2: Configure the transform

> You must set an HTTP method and a request pattern (endpoint) to match against. These patterns can contain wildcards in the form of any string bracketed by curly braces. These wildcards are so they are human readable and do not translate to variable names. Under the hood, a wildcard translates to the "match everything" regex of: `(.*)`.

Reviewer: Not sure if it was a typo, why is the endpoint in brackets? 

```suggestion
You must set an HTTP method and a request pattern for the endpoint to match against. These patterns can contain wildcards in the form of any string bracketed by curly braces. These wildcards are so they are human readable and do not translate to variable names. Under the hood, a wildcard translates to the "match everything" regex of: `(.*)`.
```

Author: Because this is the first time we've used the term "request pattern" to mean "endpoint" - but this paragraph (taken from old docs) is talking specifically about the fact that the endpoint match treats it as a "request pattern". This isn't a typo.

{{< img src="/img/2.10/modify_headers.png" alt="Endpoint designer" >}}

#### Step 2: Select the "Response" tab

This ensures that the transform will be applied to responses prior to them being sent to the client.

> < placeholder for screenshot >

Reviewer: remember to add image

 - `X-Static`
 - `X-New`

### Fixing response headers that leak upstream server data

> A middleware called `header_transform` was added in Tyk 2.1 specfically to allow you to  ensure that headers such as `Location` and `Link` reflect the outward facade of your API Gateway and also align with the expected response location to be terminated at the gateway, not the hidden upstream proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A middleware called `header_transform` was added in Tyk 2.1 specfically to allow you to ensure that headers such as `Location` and `Link` reflect the outward facade of your API Gateway and also align with the expected response location to be terminated at the gateway, not the hidden upstream proxy.
```

This is configured by adding a new `rev_proxy_header_cleanup` object to the `response_processors` section of your API definition.

It has the following configuration:
 - `headers`: a list of headers in the response that should be modified
 - `target_host`: the value to which the listed headers should be updated
 
For example:
``` .json
{
    "response_processors": [
        {
            "name": "header_transform",
            "options": {
                "rev_proxy_header_cleanup": {
                    "headers": ["Link", "Location"],
                    "target_host": "http://TykHost:TykPort"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}

In this example, the `Link` and `Location` headers will be modified from the server-generated response, with the protocol, domain and port of the value set in `target_host`.

> This is not an often used feature of Tyk and has not been implemented in the Tyk Dashboard UI, nor in the [Tyk OAS API]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-oas" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is rarely used and has not been implemented in the Tyk Dashboard UI, nor in the [Tyk OAS API]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/response-header-tyk-oas" >}}).
```
